Readme.md, before:

# Pinegrow Bits and Pieces

This repository contains what will hopefully become a set of useful files for use in Pinegrow projects. It will also contain the odd tutorial to help newcomers to Pinegrow get up to speed as quickly as possible.

- [Pinegrow Bits and Pieces](#pinegrow-bits-and-pieces)
  - [Tailwind](#tailwind)
  - [Projects](#projects)
    - [Basic Tailwind site](#basic-tailwind-site)
  - [Tutorials](#tutorials)
    - [Basic Tailwind Site](#basic-tailwind-site-1)
    - [First Pinegrow project](#first-pinegrow-project)
    - [A Basic WordPress Theme](#a-basic-wordpress-theme)
    - [WordPress Theme Theory](#wordpress-theme-theory)
    - [Speed build: Basic WordPress Classic Theme using Tailwind and Flowbite](#speed-build-basic-wordpress-classic-theme-using-tailwind-and-flowbite)
    - [Customising the Basic Theme](#customising-the-basic-theme)
    - [Custom Library Pages](#custom-library-pages)
    - [Build your own custom library](#build-your-own-custom-library)

## Tailwind

Tailwind is a CSS framework that is applied to your html via classes. There are literally hundreds of classes that you can chose from to add styling to your html and whilst this might seem daunting at first the concept is actually very simple and to a certain extent you can almost guess your way around.

To try and make things a bit easier to get started there is a simple cheat sheet that I've drawn up (ostensibly for my own use at first). It's also available as a pdf so that you can have a paper reference copy.

[Cheat Sheet](cheatsheet.md)

## Projects

Here are the direct links to those projects that have been mentioned or covered in the various tutorials.

### Basic Tailwind site

A basic website that makes use of Tailwind CSS. [Github repository](https://github.com/domsinclair/BaseTheme)

## Tutorials

### Basic Tailwind Site

This Tutorial acts as a basic introduction to creating a simple website that utilises Tailwind CSS.

[How to create a basic Tailwind site](basicsite.md)

### First Pinegrow project

Using the basic Tailwind site created in the first tutorial we create a Pinegrow project.

[How to setup a Pinegrow Project from the basic tailwind site](pgbasictemplate.md)

### A Basic WordPress Theme

From the Pinegrow project that was created in the last tutorial this tutorial goes on to convert it into a basic WordPress theme.

[Creating a basic WordPress theme using Pinegrow](basicwordpress.md)

### WordPress Theme Theory

Some very basic theory on the necessities of a WordPress theme.

[What constitutes a good starting point for a WordPress Theme](startpoint.md)

### Speed build: Basic WordPress Classic Theme using Tailwind and Flowbite

A simple quick classic wordpress theme for reuse

[Speed Build: WP ClasicTheme + Tailwind and Flowbite](wpclassicTailwindandflowbite.md)

### Customising the Basic Theme

This tutorial looks at customising the Basic Theme. It will look at `how to apply specific customisation to meet a client's requirements.

[Fleshing out the Basic Theme](fleshingout.md)

### Custom Library Pages

This tutorial begins a look at custom libraries, one of Pinegrows most powerful features.

[Reusable Libraries](reuseable.md)

### Build your own custom library

We follow on from our relatively brief intro into custom libraries to have a more detailed look at creating one from scratch.

[Create a custom library from acratch](createlibrary.md)

Commit message:

First part of Full site build

Readme.md, after:

# Pinegrow Bits and Pieces

This repository contains what will hopefully become a set of useful files for use in Pinegrow projects. It will also contain the odd tutorial to help newcomers to Pinegrow get up to speed as quickly as possible.

- [Pinegrow Bits and Pieces](#pinegrow-bits-and-pieces)
  - [Tailwind](#tailwind)
  - [Projects](#projects)
    - [Basic Tailwind site](#basic-tailwind-site)
  - [Tutorials](#tutorials)
    - [Basic Tailwind Site](#basic-tailwind-site-1)
    - [First Pinegrow project](#first-pinegrow-project)
    - [A Basic WordPress Theme](#a-basic-wordpress-theme)
    - [WordPress Theme Theory](#wordpress-theme-theory)
    - [Speed build: Basic WordPress Classic Theme using Tailwind and Flowbite](#speed-build-basic-wordpress-classic-theme-using-tailwind-and-flowbite)
    - [Customising the Basic Theme](#customising-the-basic-theme)
    - [Custom Library Pages](#custom-library-pages)
    - [Build your own custom library](#build-your-own-custom-library)
    - [Full Site Build](#full-site-build)
      - [Part 1](#part-1)

## Tailwind

Tailwind is a CSS framework that is applied to your html via classes. There are literally hundreds of classes that you can chose from to add styling to your html and whilst this might seem daunting at first the concept is actually very simple and to a certain extent you can almost guess your way around.

To try and make things a bit easier to get started there is a simple cheat sheet that I've drawn up (ostensibly for my own use at first). It's also available as a pdf so that you can have a paper reference copy.

[Cheat Sheet](cheatsheet.md)

## Projects

Here are the direct links to those projects that have been mentioned or covered in the various tutorials.

### Basic Tailwind site

A basic website that makes use of Tailwind CSS. [Github repository](https://github.com/domsinclair/BaseTheme)

## Tutorials

### Basic Tailwind Site

This Tutorial acts as a basic introduction to creating a simple website that utilises Tailwind CSS.

[How to create a basic Tailwind site](basicsite.md)

### First Pinegrow project

Using the basic Tailwind site created in the first tutorial we create a Pinegrow project.

[How to setup a Pinegrow Project from the basic tailwind site](pgbasictemplate.md)

### A Basic WordPress Theme

From the Pinegrow project that was created in the last tutorial this tutorial goes on to convert it into a basic WordPress theme.

[Creating a basic WordPress theme using Pinegrow](basicwordpress.md)

### WordPress Theme Theory

Some very basic theory on the necessities of a WordPress theme.

[What constitutes a good starting point for a WordPress Theme](startpoint.md)

### Speed build: Basic WordPress Classic Theme using Tailwind and Flowbite

A simple quick classic wordpress theme for reuse

[Speed Build: WP ClasicTheme + Tailwind and Flowbite](wpclassicTailwindandflowbite.md)

### Customising the Basic Theme

This tutorial looks at customising the Basic Theme. It will look at `how to apply specific customisation to meet a client's requirements.

[Fleshing out the Basic Theme](fleshingout.md)

### Custom Library Pages

This tutorial begins a look at custom libraries, one of Pinegrows most powerful features.

[Reusable Libraries](reuseable.md)

### Build your own custom library

We follow on from our relatively brief intro into custom libraries to have a more detailed look at creating one from scratch.

[Create a custom library from scratch](createlibrary.md)

### Full Site Build

A set of Tutorials walking their way through a full site build exploring the differences between the Desktop and Plugin versions of Pinegrow. In addition some of the practical elements of designing a site will be taken into consideration.

This is very much of an ongoing work so as each part is finished it will be published.

#### Part 1

[Basic outline](fullsite.md)
